>> Scott Moss: Okay,
let's move on to the next thing,
which is middleware.
There is an official middleware
implementation in Next.js.
So what is middleware?
Middleware is just a generic term
that the best way I can describe
middleware is just like something that
sits in the middle between a requester and
something that's serving the request.
It's just something that sits
in the middle of any system.
It doesn't have to be HTTP.
You can have middleware for redux
locally inside of a front end React app.
It doesn't always mean
going across the wire.
Middleware is just like something
is trying to do something.
It's asking and
it's working with the implementation
over here that's going to do the thing.
Middleware sits in the middle.
It intercepts the request that's going to
some other system to fulfill the request.
So in the case of Next.js,
the middleware is on the network layer and
it's going to intercept any
requests coming into your app.
So a request comes into your Next JS app,
middleware runs if you set it up that way,
and then that request has opportunity to
go through to your app and do something.
But middleware is kind of like sitting
in the middle and running some logic.
And the sweet thing about this
is that it runs on the edge.
So we'll talk about
the edge a little more.
But you can think of this as
like basically programmatic CDN.
So, you know, up until a few years ago,
CDNs were mostly all static.
As in, you could only put files on there,
like assets, static assets, Images,
you know, JavaScript files, CSS files,
things that wouldn't change.
Well, now you can actually write logic.
You can compute on the edge.
You can compute on a CDN,
which is extremely powerful.
You can actually build
a whole application and
have it distributed by default
by just using Edge Compute.
So again,
we'll talk more about that a little bit.
But middleware sits on the edge.
The reason this is powerful is because
if I am in Detroit and I make a request
to your app, this middleware is going
to run on the server closest to me,
which might be in Detroit,
might be in New York, wherever that is.
And then that logic is going to run, and
then whatever that logic determines,
it might then send me to wherever
your serverless function is hosted.
Maybe your serverless function is hosted
in Oregon or something like that.
So that logic runs very quickly,
very early, and you could do some.
I mean, it really isn't.
You can literally do
anything in middleware.
So it's kind of cool.
But some of the common use
cases are just like executing
some code before a request is complete.
Checking authentication,
which is what we're going to do.
Rewriting, redirecting is
probably the biggest one.
So like,
I've seen people do really crazy stuff.
Like this request came in from
this IP address we recognized.
We looked up and saw this IP address
belongs to a huge fortune 500 company.
So we rewrote the website to reflect
them and their company and their brand.
So the website they saw was completely
different than a website the rest of
the world saw.
And it's all indexable
because it happened,
it happened without JavaScript,
it happened on the server side.
So you could do really cool stuff.
There's really not much you can't do
by just adding compute on the edge.
Cool, so we're going to use it.
And I got more use cases in here.
I talk about basic authentication,
custom headers, language detection and
redirection.
So maybe you do have your website
set up in a way where different
languages are different sites.
You can redirect that way, yeah.
You got a question?
>> Speaker 2: Would another use case for
middleware be to rate
limit a particular route?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, Edge Compute
is a great place to rate limit.
The reason I kind of hesitated there
is because although Edge computer
are a great place to do it, I don't know
if I would do it in Next.js's middleware.
But yeah, you definitely could.
You definitely could.
That's probably one of the biggest.
I mean, that's what Cloudflare started as,
really.
It's just like bot protection,
rate limiting protection,
DDoS protection on a CDN level, right?
So yeah,
definitely a great use case for that.
You need some type of serverless
storage to go along with that.
So you can store like, you know, how
many attempts this IP address did per X
amount of time, but
there's tons of that as well, so.